# Veterinary Appointment Scheduling Webapp for Fictional Dr. Pug Animal Clinic

#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:

This web app is a Flask created series of web pages with access to a SQLite server as its database. It serves as a mock-up for an actual Veterinary Office or Animal Clinic to use as a way to electronically manage and schedule appointments that is easy to use for their clients, saving the need for a secretary to take appointments via phone.
Within the app, each user is required to register a username and password to have access to the appointment app. When you load up the page, you will be directed immediately to the login screen, however if you do not yet have an account you can click the Account drop-down menu and follow the link to Register. In register the user is required to input their desired username and password. Once logged in for the first time they will be redirected to a settings page wherein they should input their email address and the names of their pet or pets. Without a pet registered to your username, you cannot make an appointment. Additionally in the settings page there are options to change either your username or password. These settings can be accessed at any time. Additionally pets can be added and removed at any time. Removing a pet will not erase the history of past appointments made for that pet.
Once the user has completed all the settings required to make appointments, they can access the main sections of the page. At the top menu bar there are four pages to navigate through. Three of these pages are mostly informative and only one is to handle the appointment making. On the Doctor page, we are directed to a list of the doctors at the clinic. Their photographs and a short bio is provided for each doctor. The Hours page will show a table indicating the hours of operation for the clinic.  There are also some pictures of the clinic and rooms inside. The Access page provides the user with directions to the clinic. A google map embed is inserted (for the purposes of this demonstration, the embed is fake and just an image but it can be replaced with a real embed for an actual clinic). The clinic address is provided for people coming by car as well as a station name and estimated walking distance for people taking public transportation.
The main page of this web app (and consequently the starting page you will arrive at when you log in after the first time) is the appointment booking page. On this page we will see two drop down menus; one for the doctor you wish to see and another for the name of your pet that this appointment is for.  Below that we will see a chart of the next five days and all the hours of operation divided into thirty minute segments. A circle indicates a lot of availability. A triangle indicates limited availability. An x indicates no availability and cannot be selected. This availability is pulled directly from the database when the page loads and remains up-to-date only to the moment the page has loaded. It is possible that a scheduling conflict could arise in the meantime from another user accessing the site, but I felt that that was beyond the scope of this project. It is also important to note that the availabilities change based on the doctor selected. When the page first loads we see the availability for the clinic (either doctor). If you do not have a preference for the doctor you wish to see you can select No Preference, and the doctor will be assigned based on how busy they are at the given time. Changing the drop down menu to a specific doctor's name will refresh the chart of availability to represent only that individual doctor and not the entire clinic. Failure to select either the doctor or a pet name will send an alert to the user and no appointment will be made.
Once a successful appointment has been made, the user will be redirected to their appointment page. This page is also available at any time in the Account drop down menu. In one table, we can see the users upcoming appointments: date, time, pet name, and doctor name. Each future appointment has the option to delete or cancel, upon clicking it will be removed from the database and effectively canceled without the need to make a phone call. This page also shows past appointments the user has made with all of their pets. Since these appointments have already passed, there is no option to delete them. They serve only as a history for the information of the user. Both sets of appointments, past and future, are read from the same database and separated based on the current date and time that the user is accessing the page. Finally, in the account drop down menu there is the option to logout which is self-explanatory.
As to the structure of the folder: Contained in the main folder is the Flask App **app.py** required to run this web app. There is an additional **support.py** file containing a few helpful functions to assist the app.py file. The database **reservations.db** is a database file containing all the information for users, doctors, pets, and bookings made all in separate tables. Users table contains an id, the user name, password (encrypted), and email. Doctors table contains just an id and the doctors name. Pets table contains an id, a name, and a reference to the id of its owner. Finally, bookings table contains a booking id, a reference to the user id who made the appointment, the pet id of the pet the appointment is for, the doctor id of the doctor this appointment has been made with, as well as the date and time of the appointment.
There are two subfolders. The first, **static** contains **all the images** used on the website and are all either jpg or png files. There are also **two ico files** for the browser icon in either light or dark mode. Apart from these assets there is a **main.js** script containing the javascript used in the websites. The few functions that are used either assist in making the drop down menus work, highlight the active page with a different css style, or refresh the availability chart when a doctor name is selected. Finally, we have **styles.css** which contains the style markup for the website.
In the second folder, **templates** there are all the html files for the website. The main one **layout.html** contains the framework for the site including the navigation bar, background, and metadata. All of the **other html files** are fragments that fill in layout.html using Jinja markup and Flask's render_template() function. As all errors are handled with built-in flash() commands appearing on the screen, there is no 404 page for errors.
Being new to working with CSS I did struggle a bit with layout and as might be apparent it is not completely perfect as it is now, but I felt it was an acceptable product to produce as my final project.  In designing these websites I had a hard time aligning things with a flex display. Upon further research, however, I came across a grid display which I found a lot more intuitive to use. Additionally the grid display makes switching between PC/mobile viewing a lot easier, so I also put some effort into making the web app available for both PC and mobile views.
This is my first time doing many things including making a Flask project entirely on my own with my own database of tables. It is also my first time working with HTML and CSS completely on my own, so I acknowledge that there probably is lots of room for improving and fine-tuning. As such, I welcome any feedback. Thank you.